---
layout: post
title: WIP
description: WIP
date: 2025-06-30
feature_image: images/code.jpg
tags: [software, programming]
author: mamede
---

// Why I joined a 3 day Game JAM
Last weekend I decided to join [Micro Jam 042: Frogs](https://itch.io/jam/micro-jam-042) a 3 day Game Jam. Unfortunately for me, my schedule was exceptionally busy those days, so the Jam turned out to be something like a 20 hour jam, but I digress. Finishing a game can be tough even if you are very passionate about, it's still pretty fun overall but there are lots of boring things you have to do.

My game was by no means perfect (not even good, some may say) but I think I did a pretty good job this time, the gameplay turned out to be challenging and addictive and I can confidently say the art is great - because my sister was the one who did it.

// The theme and my idea
The main gimmick of this jam is that the theme is given one week early and a *prerequisite* is given as soon as the game starts. This JAM's theme was **Frogs** as you might've guessed, and the prerequisite was **Mouse input only**.

Having an ideia can often be one of the most difficult steps in game development, and one advice you hear often is "don't go with your first idea", this advice is great - not only for game development but for any creative process. Your first idea is most certainly be a bad one and if you need any proof you could look at one of **Valve Software**'s success stories: if it were not for playtesting and constant feedbacks, the game **Portal 2**, unquestionably one of the most influential puzzle games of all time, could have turned out [very different](https://www.engadget.com/2012-03-08-the-importance-of-playtesting-what-portal-2-could-have-been.html).

I wish I could say I iterated enough and came with a great idea, but that wasn't the case. When I think of frogs I think of their long tongue grabbing things, so I initially though about making a game about eating flies (wow), but then I thought of using the tongue to swing from branch to branch like Tarzan and decided to make an endless runner.

Of course this isn't a very original and creative game - I later wound up finding two similar games in the Jam - but that's why you also don't go with your second idea either, you have iterate over and over until you find something original. Unfortunately for me I did not have the time on my side so I went with that anyway and I made a simple draft:

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/2025-06-30/frog-draft.png" title="My first draft" %}

This is a super basic illustration and you might think it's unnecessary, but I can't stress enough how important something stupid and simple like this is, ideas in your head might seem very straight forward but as *Elon Musk* might say: ["your requirements are certainly dumb"](https://youtu.be/hhuaVsOAMFc), and you gotta make them less dumb. Visualizing the idea in a way that's not simply in your head is a very effective way of noticing details about your requirements (and making them less dumb).

// Talk a bit about game physics

// Bounciness

// Mouse position in world

// Transformation Matrices

// Play testing

// Art and Music

// Polish and bugs

// Building

// Feedback